Do you have hope that humans will colonize
the, uh, the galaxy. So expand out, become a multi planetary species.
Another way of asking that from a gravitational and a propulsion perspective,
do you think will come up with ways to travel closer to the speed of light or
maybe faster than the speed of light,
which may get a whole heck of a lot easier to, to expand out into the,
into the universe?
Yeah. Uh, well, I, I think, um,
you know, we're not, that's a very futuristic,
I think we're not that far from being able to make a one way trip to
Mars. That's a that's then a question of, uh,
whether people are willing to send somebody on a one-way trip, but oh.
I think they are.
I think there's a lot of the explorers burnt bright within the parts. Yeah.
A lot people willing to die, so, so, but the opportunity to, to a new territory.
Yeah.
So, uh, you know, with this,
this recent landing on Mars is pretty impressive.
They have a little helicopter, they can fly around. You can imagine,
you can imagine in the, not too distant future that you could have.
I don't think civilizations, colonizing, I can envision, but I,
I can envision something more like the south pole, we haven't colonized,
uh, Antarctica, cuz it's, it's all ice and cold and so forth,
but we have, uh, stations.
So we have a station that's self-sustaining at the south pole that I've been
there. It has. Wow. Really? Yeah.
What's that like? Uh,
and <laugh> because that there's parallels there to go to.
Mars. It's fantastic.
It's what's the journey like <laugh>.
The journey involves going? Uh, the south pole station is, uh,
run in the us by, by the national science foundation. Mm.
I went because I was on the, uh,
national science board that runs the national science foundation.
And so you get a V I P trip if you're healthy enough to the south pole to
see it, uh, which I took, uh,
you fly from the us to Australia to, to, uh, uh,
Christ church in Australia, Southern Australia. And, um,
from there you fly to McMurdo station,
which is on the coast and it's the station with about a thousand people,
right on the coast of Antarctica. Uh,
it's about a seven or eight hour flight and they can't predict the weather.
So when,
when I flew from Christ church to McMurdo station,
they tell you in advance, you do it in a military aircraft,
they tell you in advance that they can't predict whether they can land cuz they
have to land on, uh, that's an reassuring. Yeah.
And so about halfway, the pilot got on and said, uh,
sorry, this is, uh, they call it a boomerang flight, you know,
boomerang goes out, boom, and goes back.
So we had to stay a little while and Christchurch,
but then we eventually went to make Myrtle station and then, uh,
flew to the south pole. The south pole itself is,
uh, when I was there, it was minus 51 degrees that was summer.
Uh, it, uh, uh, zero humidity.
And um, uh,
and it's about 11,000 feet altitude
because it's never warm enough for anything to melt.
So it doesn't snow very much, but it's about 11,000 feet of snow pack.
So you land in a place that's high altitude, um,
cold as could be and uh, dry and incredibly dry,
uh, which means you have a physical adjustment. Uh, the, uh,
place itself is, uh, it's fantastic.
They have this great station there. They, they do astronomy at the south pole.
Nature wide. Is, is it beautiful or it is what's the experience like?
Or is it like visiting any town?
No, it's very small. There's only, um, less than a hundred people there,
even when I was there, you know,
there were about 50 or 60 there and in the winter there's less half of that
there, winter when yeah.
It gets.
Real cold. It gets really cold. Yeah. And, uh, but it's, but it's,
it's a station and I, and I think, and that's, I mean,
we, haven't gone beyond that, uh, on the coast of Antarctica,
they have greenhouse and they're, self-sustaining in McMurdo station,
but we haven't really settled more than that kind of thing
in Antarctica, which is a big, uh,
a country or, you know, uh, big plot,
a big piece of land. So I don't,
I can't envision kind of colonizing it,
people be living so much as much as I can see, uh,
of the equivalent of the south pole.
Station. Well, in, in the computing world, there's a idea of, um, you know,
backing up your data and then you wanna do offsite backup, uh, you know,
to make sure that if the whole thing burn, if your whole house burns down,
that you can have a back offsite of the data.
I think the difference between Antarctica and, um,
and Mars is Mars is a offsite backup that if we have nuclear war,
whatever the heck might happen here on earth,
it'd be nice to have a backup elsewhere. And, uh,
it'd be nice to have a large enough colony where we sent a variety of people
except like, uh, a few silly astronauts and, and suits,
you know, have a actual, vibrant, um, get a few,
get a few musicians and artists up there, get a few, uh,
maybe like one or two computer scientists. Those are essential,
maybe even a physicist.
I'm not sure, you know, maybe not.
So that comes back to something you talked about earlier, which is fair,
the paradox families' paradox because you talked about having to escape or yeah.
But, and so the missing one,
one number you don't know how to use in fairies calculation or Drake who's done
a better is how long do civilizations last? Yeah.
Before they are, we, you know,
we've barely gotten to where we can communicate with electricity and magnetism
and maybe we'll wipe ourselves out pretty.
Soon. So are you hopeful in general?
Like you think we've got another couple hundred years at least. Yeah.
Or are you worried?
I, well, I, no, I'm, I'm, I'm hopeful,
but I don't know if I'm hopeful in the long term. Hmm. You know, if you say,
you know, uh, are we able to,
to go for another couple thousand years? I'm not sure. I, you know,
think we have little where we,
where we started the fact that we can do things that don't allow us to kind of
keep going, or there can be, whether it, you know,
ends up being a virus that we create or ends up being the equivalent of nuclear
war or something else. Uh, uh,
it's not clear that we can control things well enough.